---
title: Calculating distance to an object of known size from an image
layout: post
---

We have an image of an object of known size and want to know how far away it is.

Finally, a real-world use for trigonometry!  The key formula is:

**tan(&theta;) = opposite/adjacent**

First step: figure out the angle per pixel.  Ideally, the camera specs would include this, but you can just measure it by taking a series of photos.

You know that tangent is the opposite side divided by the adjacent side.  The opposite side is the width of the object.  The adjacent side is the distance when you take the photo.

In our case: `physicalsize` is 25 inches.

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped" style="width:inherit;">
	<thead>
		<tr>
			<th>Photo #</th>
			<th>Object size in pixels</th>
			<th>Distance</th>
			<th>Angle (<code>atan(physicalsize/distance)</code>)</th>
			<th>Angle per pixel (<code>angle/pixels</code>)</th>
		</tr>
	</thead>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>1</td>
			<td></td>
			<td></td>
			<td></td>
			<td></td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td colspan="5">&hellip;</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<!-- LATER: link to spreadsheet -->

In theory, the angle per pixels should be constant in all the photos, regardless of the distances.

Then, to get the distance, we use the formula in reverse:

We can calculate &theta;: this is just the pixels * angle per pixel

We known opposite: this is the `physicalsize`.

So adjacent = opposite/tan(&theta;)

or distance = physicalsize / tan( pixels * angle_per_pixel )

## Notes

Is the angle in radians or degrees?  It doesn't matter:  Since you do arc-tangent and then undo with tangent, it has no effect on the calculation.  It is whatever units your atan/tan functions return.

What are the units for the distance?  Whatever units you used for `physicalsize`.


